# OnlineMessagingWebApplication

Note: To download the files and code you can simply click on the file link below the README and click "view raw" and it will download a zip folder containing all the files and code used in this project.

Note: There is also a video demo attatched to this repository.

This is an online messaging Web Application similar to slack or discord I made implementing Javascript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Flask, Python, Ajax, ORMs and Socket.IO. When a user visits the web application they can login using a display name. Once in a channel, users can send messages to others. Once they send the message their display name, timestamp, and message will show up to all users on that channel. If a user is on a channel page, closes the web browser window, and goes back to your web application, Flack will remember what channel the user was on previously and take the user back to that channel, and their display name and messages they sent will also all be remembered. All users can see all their messages for each channel whenever they want to. Users can also create new channels, so long as its channel name is not already an existing channel. Users can see a list of all current channels and once clicked on, they can see all the messages in that channel and send messages like normal. It is also important to note that all functions of this web application allow the user to get real time information without having to manually reload the page. Finally, there is also a personal touch I added similar to the concept of emojis, where if users send messages like ":)" it alerts the other user you are talking to of the emotion the user is feeling (in this case it would alert that the user is happy). Some other examples of these I included are ":(" meaning the user is sad, ":'(" meaning the user is crying, ":O" meaning the user is shocked, and "XD" meaning the user is laughing.
